<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 38</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Bibliographical Notes on the Verses</h2>
			<p>				<b>Chap.</b>
</p>
			<p>III. The Funeral dirge on King Gorice XI⁠—William Dunbar (late 15th century) “Lament for the Makris: quhen he was seik.”</p>
			<p>Lampoon on Gro⁠—Epigram in memory of William Parrie, “a capital traitor,” executed for treason in 1584: quoted by Holinshed.</p>
			<p>IV. Prophecy concerning the last three Kings of the house of Gorice in Carce.</p>
			<p>VII. Song in praise of Prezmyra Thomas Carew (1598⁠–⁠1639).</p>
			<p>Corund’s Song of the Chine⁠—“An Antidote against Melancholy”</p>
			<p>Corsus’s “Whene’er I bib the wine down”⁠—Anacreonta xxv.; transl. from the Greek, E. R. E.</p>
			<p>Corsus’s other ditties … ⁠—From the “Roxburgh Ballads”⁠—(collected 1774).</p>
			<p>IX. Mivarsh’s slaves on Salapanta⁠—Herrick (1591⁠–⁠1674), “Hesperides.”</p>
			<p>XV. Prezmyra’s song of Lovers⁠—Donne (1573⁠–⁠1631)</p>
			<p>Corinius’s love ditty: “What an Ass is he”⁠—“Merry Drollerie”</p>
			<p>Corinius’s song on his Mis tress⁠—Ibid.</p>
			<p>Laxus’s Serenade Anacreota ii.; trans. from the Greek, E. R. E.</p>
			<p>XVII. March of Corsus’s veterans⁠—</p>
			<p>XXII. Mevrian’s ballad of the Ra vens⁠—Old Ballad: “The Three Ravens.”</p>
			<p>XXIV. Mevrian’s quotation on the asbeston stone⁠—Robert Greene (1560⁠–⁠92), “Alphonsus, King of Arragon.”</p>
			<p>XXX. Gro’s serenade to Prezmyra⁠—Sir Henry Wotton (1568⁠–⁠1639), verses to Elizabeth, Queen of Bohemia.</p>
			<p>XXXI. Prophecy concerning conjuring</p>
			<p>XXXIII. Lines quoted by Queen Sophonisba on the fall of Witchland⁠—Webster (beginning of 17th century); “The Duchess of Malfi,” Act V. V.</p>
			<p>Queen Sophonisba’s Sonnet⁠—Shakespeare, Sonnet XVIII.</p>
			<p>The text here printed of Wotton’s poem is that of “Reliquiae Wottonianae,” 1st ed., 1651, edited by Izaak Walton; except that I read (with the earlier texts) 1. 5 <i>Moone</i>, 1. 8 <i>Passions</i>, 1. 16 <i>Princess</i>, instead of <i>Sun</i>, <i>Voyces</i>, <i>Mistris</i> of the 1651 edition. Shakespeare’s Sonnet is from the Quarto of 1609.</p>
			<p>The passage from Njal’s Saga in the Induction is quoted from Sir George Dasent’s classic translation.</p>
			<p>E.R.E</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
